The Color Monster
Kyler Spoon
3rd Grade 2025

Chapter 1
The boss was trying to figure out the next plan but suddenly Boom! Boom! Boom!
The boss looks outside her window and sees the Color Monster was stealing all the colors from the city  and When she looked back at her desk all the color was gone.
To be continued...

3 days later
Zeke boot Jef The Color Monster has stolen all the color from the city.
(said Katie the boss)
As the boss sat in her chair pushing the overcome to speak.
They got a fake peppermint shield and a frozen steak.
They went days and nights acrost deserts and they found some dragon prints on the way, forests, and they found broken trees, up a mountain, and they are there at the dragons cave and when they step up to the dragon, the dragon ROOOOOOORD!!!!
Vigorously, and everyone stepped back and jumped on a happy cloud flue up up up up away to the sun and on the way they saw a Elephart.

Chapter 2
Elephaphart said hi Zeke Boot Jef and the boss and the cloud said hi to Elephart and went back down to the mountain and lucky for them it was raining but the cave was up above the clouds and they did not get wet and they seen the Color Monster has a...

Chapter 3
Baby Color Monster!!!
 (The boss said) Aww its so cute!!!! The Color Monster has spoken(the Color Monster said) SHHHH she is asleep (The Color Monster said softly) 

Chapter 4
Zeke Boot Jef and the boss asked the Color Monster if she could eat the peppermint and she will save the city if she eats it(The Color Monster said) NO. Why why why why  why!  (said Zeke) ZEKE! (said the boss) What!

Chapter 5
If you insist (said the Color Monster)   and she eats it (The Color Monster said) not tasty. (The Boss 
said) it's not supposed to.  and suddenly she was all red, she spit it out, Zeke got the peppermint and gave it to the boss and hopped on the happy cloud and went back to the city.

Chapter 6
They threw the peppermint into the sky and all the color was in the city again(in the distance you
can hear the Color Monster roaring).


THE END.
