Explanation of Buddhism from Astalon18 who made this reply on http://www.reddit.com/r/Buddhism

You use the word Stream Enterer so I suspect you are practicing Theravada. Very well, I shall guide you in the tradition you have wished to follow and will explain to you the Theravada Buddhist worldview on the path of purification. 
You have correctly identified that in Theravada and in Mahayana there are two types of Buddhist, monastics and householders ( or what you call lay followers but technically we are more householders ). Technically speaking there are four orders of Buddhist ( yes, they are orders ) …. male monastics, female monastics, male householder, female householders. There is also an intermediary called anagarika who are the permanent eight precept holders who acts as the bridge between the monastics and the householders. The early Buddhist text describes them as householders who practices well and the idea that they are bridges between the householders and monastics is more a tradition in the last 1000 years. 
Now you must understand one thing about the Path of Purification which a Buddhist undertake .. you are only expected to follow the path to the degree that you are ready to undertake it. There is no “right degree” to take but rather there is the degree you are willing to undergo dependent upon your level of insight and very critically a sense of samvega. 
Unlike Christianity or Islam, Buddhism is not a yes or no religion in terms of level of training to undertake. Buddhism is fundamentally about purification of mind, it is a training in morality, kindness, insight and wisdom, and moving in the general direction of Nirvana. The critical point here is general direction …. as long as you are headed in that general direction this is wholesome. 
Which leads us back to the four orders .. why did the Buddha specifically create two orders .. the monastics ( one for male, one for female ) and the householders ( one for male, one for female ) with specific threshold of practice IF the intention was everyone practice the same. Why are the monastics minimally expected to take 10 Precepts as well as 227 total rules for male monks while for householders we are only expected to take 5 Precepts and every fortnight or month if we are devoted take one day of the 8 Precept ( if we choose to ). 
Ponder on this question for a moment. Ever realise that 95% of Buddhist only ever take 5 Precepts for their entire life? Are they bad Buddhist? Heck no, because this was what the Buddha Himself set into rule. Ever realise that most householders only ever practice metta meditation as their form of meditation, and not the protracted mindfulness ( the Buddha stressed loving kindness meditation a lot for householders but there really is only two suttas where a householder explicitly get taught mindfulness as we are taught now as opposed to a more direct reflection on sickness, death, ageing, causation etc.. Also historically mindfulness was only ever reliably taught to monks until the last 200 years. Yes our first record of mindfulness being actively taught to general householders was in the early 19th century. Previously mindfulness would only have been taught to householders who are 8 Precept holders, not to the whole group as we now do ) 
The answer is the Buddha did not intend everyone to practice to the same degree ( or He would just create one order ) 
This is because the Buddha knew that not everyone could undergo the full rigors of the path. However, moving in the general direction of the path itself is wholesome and can lead to Sotapanna ( stream entry ) or better rebirth ( if one did not achieve Sotapanna ). The householder practice is however specifically stated to be sufficient to lead to Sotapanna, so the householder practice is not deficient in this regard. 
So who was supposed to undergo the monastic training in the early text? They are those who undergo samvega ( ie:-existential dread ). These are people to whom they recognise the hollowness of conditioned existence and realise its total drawbacks, and as a result wishes to achieve liberation quickly. These are people who wants to achieve Arhathood in this lifetime or if not in this lifetime the quicker the better. 
So who was supposed to under to be under the householder training in the early text? These are those who sees the benefit of the Dharma as leading to (1) either cessation of suffering and thus liberation, and recognises to a limited degree the drawback of conditioned existence (2) sees the Dharma as the vehicle to lead to a happy and peaceful life (3) recognises the Dharma as a vehicle for a better rebirth. 
Notice that all three are equally valid. Some people wishes to bring about the cessation of becoming and being but unlike the monastic group have not experienced samvega hence lacks a sense of urgency ( ie:- they recognise it in their head, not their heart ). The second group, which I would dare say MOST Buddhist falls under is that we see the Dharma as the vehicle to lead to a happy and peaceful existence in this life. The third is those who just wants to be reborn in the Heavens. 
Many householders lead a worldly life. We enjoy gaming, they enjoy playing etc.. We work, we have careers. The Buddha supported us even in His days and gave teachings to us as in the Dighajanu Sutta ( ie:- Teachings suitable for householders ). The Buddha counselled Sigalaka in the Sigalovada Sutta on how to lead a good householder life and promised that this practice at the very least will lead to a Heavenly rebirth. The Buddha also kept assuring us that this practice alone can lead to Sotapanna so many householders who practices well probably die as Sotapannas. 
So what practice should all Buddhist keep if they are keen for Sotapanna? That is to practice the Five Precepts, practice dana ( generosity ), reflect daily on the Five Daily Recollections ( this is kind of important, while there is only one concise Sutta on this this practice is mentioned throughout numerous Suttas and the Buddha kept asking people to reflect on some of this things either partially or whole on a regular basis ), practice metta. Get to know the Four Noble Truths and the Eight Fold Path while keeping to the practice of the Five Daily Recollection and Metta. Read some Suttas. If you already know mindfulness practice, spend sometime to practice that. 
Remember there are two paths to Sotapanna, Dhamma followers and Faith Followers. Each can lead Sotapanna ( you should read up on faith follower and dhamma follower ). What I mention above encompasses both. If you have great analytics, you can become a Sotapanna. If you have great conviction in the Buddha, Dharma and Sangha, you also can become a Sotapanna. However both still needs Five Precept, Dana and constant reflections ( Dhamma followers analyses and after analysis, accepts, and this forms their reflection. Faith follower knows the teaching and accepts it on conviction ( but not so much analysis ), including really trusting the Buddha, and this forms their reflection ). 
Just doing this alone is sufficient to lead to Sotapanna, as remember what makes one a Sotapanna is instinctively right view, namely a recognition of anicca, anatta and dukkha as well as a sudden inability to break the Five Precepts intentionally. 
Now once become a Sotapannas there is now work to purify the mind ( yes, the mind of a Sotapanna is not wholly pure, it is still tainted by anger and greed but now it sees its drawbacks instinctively ). That is where the hardcore aspects of Buddhism kicks in. However you can legitimately wait till then to really work even harder. You will develop samvega probably around the same time. 
Do you now understand? 
